# Why `just-func`?

Before getting started,
it is good to know why do we create `just-func`,
what kind of problems it solves,
and what's its general direction and approach on things.

This would help the community to drive `just-func` forward,
and avoid causing it to spin out of control. ðŸŽ ðŸŽ ðŸ’¨ ðŸ’¨

## Purpose of `just-func`

If we want to describe the purpose of `just-func` in a single sentence,
it would be something like this:

> `just-func` is a language to enable communication between systems and developers with different backgrounds.

To expand on that,
most programming languages are designed to communicate with computer and create systems.
Only a handful of specialized languages are are designed to be used to communicate between systems.
Most of the time, systems share data, not logic.

If you have heard about Clean Architecture,
one of the things it promote is to treat framework as external dependencies,
so you can swap it out when needed.

In a sense, `just-func` is treating programming language platforms as external dependencies.

For developers with different backgrounds,
the programming language they write in, the domain they are in, the tools they use,
will shape their opinion and it is not easy for them to understand programs written in another language.
This make it hard for them to collaborate.
`just-func` solve this problem by providing a simple language that captures the essences of their logic, which can be used in the language of their choice.

But hold on, doesn't that means they have to learn another language (`just-func`)?
Aren't that defeat the purpose?

In a sense, yes, that's true.
It is something we can't really get away from.
The `just-func` team is fully aware of that, thus we can mitigate it as much as possible.
We will get into the details and answer this concern when we talk about the [design goals](./1.2.0-design-goals.md) of `just-func`.

But before that, let's talk about the benefit and the ~~ambitions~~ language goals of `just-func`.

---

[prev: introduction](./0.0.0-introduction.md) | [next: language goals](./1.1.0-language-goals.md)
