# Design Goals

Design goals describe the desire traits of the language.
They describe what the users of `just-func` should expect,
and what do we want them to feel in the long term.

The actual decisions made to satisfy these goals are described in the [design choices](./1.3.0-design-choices.md).

## Easy to learn and write

Developers uses `just-func` as a secondary language.
They have different backgrounds and knowledge.
So it s very important to make sure that `just-func` is easy to learn.

Supporting design choices:

- [based on JSON](./1.3.0-design-choices.md#based-on-json)
- [jf syntax](./1.3.0-design-choices.md#jf-syntax)
- minimal keywords
- minimum forms
- consistent forms
- language server
- package manager

## Easy to read and understand

`just-func` is often read during transit, i.e. in JSON format.
It is important to make sure that even in that format,
`just-func` code is still easy to read and understand.

- minimal syntax
- function composition
- declarative programming
- minimal keywords
- minimum forms
- consistent forms
- just-func formatter

## Linear Learning Curve

The syntax and complexity of the code should grow linearly.

- similar syntax on type-level programming
- minimum forms

## Type is optional

## dynamically typed

Dynamically typed means the type of the variable is checked during runtime.

`just-func` is dynamically typed because it can be executed by the `hosting language` at runtime.
Even thou some `hosting language` might able to JIT compile `just-func` code making it possible to be statically typed,
most other `hosting language` would interpret it meaning `just-func` code must support runtime type checking.

## Structural Type

Definitely supports structural type first instead of restricting the whole system with nominal type.

No question asked.

🚧 to discuss:

The type syntax is still not defined.

## Strongly Type with type inference

Use type inference to infer types whenever possible.

## Standardized packages

One primary goals of `just-func` is to share logic across different `hosting languages`.
That means the dependencies used by the logic must behave the same everywhere.

## Focus on Tooling

---

[prev](./1.1.0-language-goals.md) [next](./1.3.0-design-choices.md)
